---
title: "Effects of Multichannel Active Galactic Nuclei Feedback in FIRE Cosmological Simulations of Massive Galaxies"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2024-AGNfeedback
date: 2024-09-27
# venue: ''
paperurl: 'https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.3847/1538-4357/ad67ca'
citation: 'Lindsey Byrne, Claude-André Faucher-Giguère, Sarah Wellons, Philip F. Hopkins, Daniel Anglés-Alcázar, <b>Imran Sultan</b>, Nastasha Wijers, Jorge Moreno, Sam Ponnada. 2024. <i>The Astrophysical Journal</i>, 973, 149'
---
Feedback from supermassive black holes is believed to be a critical driver of the observed color bimodality of galaxies above the Milky Way mass scale. Active galactic nuclei (AGN) feedback has been modeled in many galaxy formation simulations, but most implementations have involved simplified prescriptions or a coarse-grained interstellar medium (ISM). We present the first set of Feedback In Realistic Environments (FIRE)-3 cosmological zoom-in simulations with AGN feedback evolved to $z \sim 0$, examining the impact of AGN feedback on a set of galaxies with halos in the mass range $10^{12}–10^{13}\ M_\odot$. These simulations combine detailed stellar and ISM physics with multichannel AGN feedback including radiative feedback, mechanical outflows, and, in some simulations, cosmic rays (CRs). We find that massive ($> L_\ast$) galaxies in these simulations can match local scaling relations including the stellar mass–halo mass relation and the $M_{\mathrm{BH}}–\sigma$ relation; in the stronger model with CRs, they also match the size–mass relation and the Faber–Jackson relation. Many of the massive galaxies in the simulations with AGN feedback have quenched star formation and elliptical morphologies, in qualitative agreement with observations. In contrast, simulations at the massive end without AGN feedback produce galaxies that are too massive and form stars too rapidly, are order-of-magnitude too compact, and have velocity dispersions well above Faber–Jackson. Despite these successes, the AGN models analyzed do not produce uniformly realistic galaxies when the feedback parameters are held constant: While the stronger model produces the most realistic massive galaxies, it tends to overquench the lower-mass galaxies. This indicates that further refinements of the AGN modeling are needed.